All right in this lecture we are going to learn how to download images so we just had a great introduction
how to start downloading some web content.
We're going to take things a bit further with actually downloading an image.
So let's go ahead and start a new project and let's just call it downloading
images and the default for everything.
And so kind of a form that this app is going to take is that we're going to have our screen we're going
to have a button that says download image if the user clicks on that button.
There's going to be an image view below.
That's going to then display said image.
And you can decide whatever image it is that you want we're going to be downloading a Bart Simpson image
Rob loves the Simpsons so in his honor we're going to be downloading an image of Bart.
But yeah that's what we're going for.
And you'll notice there's going to be a lot of similar code from what we saw last time but definitely
a few different things.
So let's go ahead and start visually here.
Let's go ahead and get the SML part of this all set up and then we can go ahead and dive into the code.
So like I said we want to have a button up top saying download the image and then we want to have an
image you just below that
and here we go.
Android studio just needs the second to wake up there OK.
So first thing I want to do is let's get rid of our techs you that's in there by default and we'll bring
in a button and we want this button to go fairly close to each edge.
I might put you know something like 20 and 20 on that something from the top.
We need to change that so it goes all the way to the edge.
There we go.
And go ahead and change the text on this.
You want that to say download image K for it's on click
maybe just call that download image as well.
All right.
So that's looking good as far as the button goes.
Then we want to have a nice big image below where we can show Bart.
So go ahead and drag him out there and let's try that one more time
oh it's looking for some sort of something in there.
Well we just wanted to be transparent so just choose the window background.
I mean we could pick a color here but you know I don't really want to fill that with anything right
now.
In fact I'm just going to go ahead and delete what we have there.
All right so with this image you want to make sure that it's going where it needs to go so we'll go
ahead and add some constraints here maybe just make these 20 all around
them go 20 on that.
Oh it went to the top of the page.
We're going to have to add some extra though even more than that.
Let's see what 80 looks like.
Yeah that's good.
OK.
So with that let's go ahead and change this up.
So we have this filling the entire screen.
Yeah.
There we go now.
Now we're talking hoops and I have switched this now.
There we go.
That's back to the usual screen size that we like seen.
OK.
So with this we want to make sure.
Let's see if we have the on click which is download image and then for this image you must just leave
its ID as image view.
And so let's go back to our code here.
First thing is let's make that method for whenever someone taps on the button so say download image
taken a view that is called view right.
So this is when someone's going to tap on it let's make sure this is working here for just say button
tapped OK and we'll go ahead and check that ok and go ahead and run this on the emulator and sense that
emulator is not running ready to go.
Maybe we should move onto the other parts of our code so that we can make some good progress about what
we're working with.
So the first thing that we need to do is we need to get access to the image view.
So we're going to bring it out here as a property and we'll say image view and we'll just give it the
boring name of image view and then here inside of our create we'll say image view is equal to our classic
fine view by id our DOT ID that we need the image you
an android studio is not giving the pop up.
There we go.
Just because it's taken all its power trying to get the emulator up and running.
Bullets hit enter on that so you get the nice import stuff.
OK.
So now that we've got the image in place we need to make a class for doing our background task right
whenever we extend a sync task.
So I'm going to put that code below this on create.
So I'm going to say public class then we need to choose some name here.
I'm going to choose image downloader came with this.
We need to say that it extends.
And this is where we want to get our a sync task.
Let's go ahead and hit enter on that.
Now with this async task we still want to take in the string as your L and we're going to void our middle
parameter and then for returning we don't worry Turnage string we want to return what's called a bitmap.
This is our way to return an image.
So we'll go ahead and do our curly brackets with that and you'll see that you know it's kind of upset
here and that's because we need to implement those methods so click this way.
Implement methods.
Now I get that awesome do in background so you can see those doing background that is going to return
a bitmap now instead of a string.
So that's good.
Let's rename this to you or else like we had before.
I will kind of be a fun way to do that and it looks like the emulators fully loaded now so I just want
to go ahead and test this code that the button tapped shows up whenever we hit the button.
So let's go ahead and make sure that that's the case I'll get log cat up and run in there K so here
comes the app download image and look at that button tapped.
OK.
All right.
So that means we're moving in the right direction here.
So the next thing that we need to do is as we've done before convert the string you Arel into an actual
real object.
So we're going to say you Arel that's called your elbows should be equal to a new you r l object that
we use whatsoever inside of this or L's kind of pseudo array at the zero position meaning the very first
one and looks like I forgot to hit enter there.
There we go.
And with this we are going to have to surround it with a try catch so we'll do our Try here and a catch
when we get all exceptions exception.
Excellent.
All right so that gets us a u r l.
The next thing that we need to do is you need to create an HTP your L connection so as HTP your all
connection we'll just simply call connection and this is equal to your l dot open connection and we're
going to have to go ahead and cast this to say that is an H TTP or real connection.
All right so that's looking a little bit better there.
And then with this connection we want to say connect to say let's you know sort of fire this up just
sounds a little funny saying connect the connection and then just like before we want to do an input
stream but things will be a little bit different after that.
So we're going to say input stream i n is equal to Connection get input stream.
OK and this is where things are going to change a bit because before we were just trying to read in
a bunch of text right like we didn't want to you know return an image or anything like that so that's
why we could kind of go step by step.
Whereas with the bitmap we kind of need to do everything in one fell swoop.
So we're going to create a new map and we're going to say mine bitmap is equal to bitmap factory type
built bitmap factory and then on that we want to do dot D code stream and you can see we can pass in
an input stream so that's what we're going to pass an eye and right which is the input stream that we
created right here.
And by doing that it just sort of in one fell swoop adds everything to this bitmap and which we can
very simply just return my bitmap and that's all it takes to get an image and download it and pass it
back.
Now if there is some sort of exception we need to return something.
So in this case let's just go ahead and return no.
We should also with this exception go ahead and do a print stack trace so we can figure out what the
issue was.
But with this we have the beginnings of what it is that we're trying to do.
So really from here it's just a matter of going ahead and actually using the code here.
So we need to go back up to the top inside of this download image so let's go ahead and get access to
our image downloader saw See image downloader and we'll call this task is equal to a new image downloader
excellent.
We also need to have an image that we're going to set things equal to so we're going to say make a new
bitmap image that we'll call my image.
Just define that for the time being but then will actually go about signing that to something and will
say My image is equal to this task that we've created that execute and it's looking for strings so I'll
just put an empty one for now.
But on that we're going to have to do a get in you can see when we do get that's when it's going to
return us back the bitmap so that's exactly what we're looking for.
So go ahead put the semi-colon there.
Now again there could be some exceptions with this so we have to surround this with a try catch.
So we'll do our try there and then a catch for any and all exceptions exception here which in this case
we would want to print out this track track space stret stack trace.
Man that's a real tongue twister there Jane.
So this is going to be the code that we need in order to get this to execute and that'll get us an image
but sort of the next step for us is we need to actually go ahead and pass this into the image view.
So after we get the image this is where we'd want to save image view dot set image bitmap and we're
going to pass in my image and that should do the trick.
So remember before we move on that we've got to go ahead and get permission in the Android manifest.
So we'll go ahead and open that up.
Remember we want to do use permissions want the Internet one that remembered we use that recently.
I like that feature in Android studio so we should have everything that we need to go get this except
I guess I'm missing one big thing.
Hopefully you noticed this is we never provided a u r l of which image it was that we wanted to go download
right.
So let's go ahead and open up Safari.
And like I said in Rob's honor let's go get an image of Bart.
So if you just search Bart Simpson Wiki there should be a good image from the Wikipedia page and look
at that.
Good looking Bart.
So you want to right click this image and you want to get the URL for the actual image.
So there's a lot of different options that we can get here and we want to get the copy to the image
address so you can.
It's tempting to go to the image or copy link but that will take you to like the actual Wikipedia page
you want to do copy image address and to confirm you have the right one.
Just go ahead and paste in your browser should end in something like a P N G or a j peg.
And if you go to visit it should just show the image there shouldn't be any sort of website connected
with it.
And if we have the proper moral Let's go ahead and pass it in there and let's see if we can get this
to work.
OK.
So go ahead and run this is our our big moment of truth here to see if this thing works.
All right we've got our emulator.
I hit the download image button and boom.
Look at that.
We get Bart Simpson showing up here on our device.
How cool is that.
That is so awesome just for fun here.
Let's go ahead and search for a different Simpsons character.
Let's go ahead and do Homer Simpson's wiki.
OK.
We're going to copy the image address and let's go ahead and replace that.
Go ahead and paste it in and let's run this.
You know when you build something cool like this it's just it's the least it's my natural tendency to
say oh I've got to go try this now with this different thing you know like just to see if it works and
boom.
Look at that.
We get Homer Simpson munching on a donut to pop up.
So pretty cool things.
Well this is an excellent pretty face into working with our next guest the celebrity app.
We're going to use a lot of the things that we just learned here.
But again a lot of other stuff and we're going to call compounded into one.
Let's go ahead and dive into that app.